This is the Old Royal Naval College in Greenwich. A place mentioned in the list of world heritage sites
that most Americans and
let's be honest, most Brits, know as "That place that was blown up in Thor 2".
But blowing that up would have been a door handle of a lot different
if it happened a few decades earlier. For many years
this was a training base in use for the Royal Navy. That is where the name "Old Royal Naval College" comes from
That was not so long ago.
Marines were trained here in the mid-1990s.
And, well, the Royal Navy has nuclear submarines.
Nuclear submarines have nuclear reactors. Nuclear reactors need people to run them
and so what do you do, if you are the Royal Navy and you have to
people have to run your nuclear reactors?
Well, you are building a nuclear reactor in the basement
of a 17th century building just a few miles from the center of London.
Seriously, exactly here,
somewhere in this complex, somewhere in the basement of this, the King William building,
was a working nuclear reactor for many years, from 1963
until the mid-90s. At that time Greenwich called itself a nuclear-free
area. This area was specially exempted.
And why was there no protest? Well, first of all
not many people knew about it. The Royal Navy is pretty good in operational safety
and secondly, well despite the fact that the word "nuclear reactor" is very scary,
it was only a small reactor. It produced 10 kilowatts that is enough to the
about five kettles to turn. I mean the amount of fuel
that it produced are actually quite small. There would never be a chance
been on a Chernobyl here. But good if Thor was invaded ...
I do not know what Thor did, I-- I did not see the movie.
If Thor would have invaded a few decades earlier, who knows?
There might have been a little more radioactivity, his hammer
I - as I said, I have not seen the film, so I do not know what happened.
This is the first videos sent by things that you have submitted. Thank you very much
for David and Olly who tipped me over the reactor in the middle of Greenwich.
[Translated by Patrick.]